---
layout: project
title: Green Card Buildout!
author: Hsiang Hsi Lu
year: 2023
image: /img/green_card_buildout.png
---

*“The old solution, the old way, was to think that public money alone could end these problems. But we have learned that is not so. And in any case, our funds are low.”* said in the presidential inauguration by President George H. W. Bush. A moderate Republican and a tweak of Reaganism when the torch was passed. His message was clear – finding a new solution to address various social problems with limited public funds.

Stagflation had doomed Cold War America for decades. High unemployment rates, malfunctioned public infrastructure systems, and real estate development halt slowly strangled American modernisation. To cure this seemingly irremediable economic condition, Reagan’s administration took the free-market ideology, Reaganomics, into practice as an adrenaline to burst the circumscribed bubble. Big corporations thrived, and the overall economic outlook was prosperous; however, development from cities to rural areas continued in despair due to deficient government budgets from tax reduction. The question was, how to save the other half that was left behind? The country needed more capital to support its infrastructure and urban-rural development. Zooming out the domestic standpoint and turning head on the other side of the ocean, H. W. Bush’s administration found a unique solution – immigrant investment. For many foreigners, especially in Pacific Asia, America was a symbol of freedom and prosperity, and ultimately a resemblance of the American dream. Bush used this premise as an advertisement to attract foreign capital. The dynamic of global economic and ideological transactions in the scope of this policy could be seen as a new ***manifestation*** from the Oriental perspective.

In 1992, Congress introduced *The Immigrant Investor Pilot Program*, now renamed as the *Regional Center Program*, as an extension of the original EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program under *The Immigration Act of 1990*. The intent of the program was to stimulate rural or high unemployment-rated areas' economies through foreign investment by incentivizing investors' permanent residency. Tens of Billion dollars have poured into targeted areas since, and the program, for example in New York City, has facilitated major developments like Hudson Yards, Atlantic Yards, Brooklyn Navy Yards, and Time Square. Under the light of expensive new projects, the participation of private entities and quasi-public development remained in a black box. To insure the return on investment, many developments ended up occurring in high real estate value areas after lobbying local governments to gerrymander zoning regulations. The goals of the immigrant investor program had twisted and departed after years of practicing and finding loopholes to maximum profit. New social issues arose with capitalistic intentions, and resulted in the polarization of development topography. If we look at the patchworks, the patterns, and the geographic footprints of the developments, the urban transformation through this program has become a unique, peculiar ***phenomenon***.

As a signal of success and bettering the program, last year, President Joe Biden signed the revised *EB-5 Integrity and Reform Act of 2022*. It drew considerable attention and discussion for affiliates from real estate development, immigration policy, economy, and political science. It is time to evaluate the 30-year-old program in a satellite, urbanism lens.

The project, *Green Card Buildout!*, hopes to address the ***manifestation*** and the ***phenomenon*** arising after the investment immigrant program was invented. By the implementation of urban analysis and the assistance from computational design tools, the project aims to deliver a more neutral-toned research on how this program has transformed the modern American landscape from 1992 till 2021. Data and building footprints scatter *everywhere*; and most likely, if you are in the industry, it is not impossible to find the information you need. The project serves as a nexus of organized research, a reflection of what had been done rather than a full disclosure of evidence or finding a better solution for different parties. Criticism and antagonism towards policy, development, the immigration, the rich, and social welfare is not the primary goal in this project. *Green Card Buildout!* introduces a unique angle on how a relatively simple policy can have a great impact on urban development, and how a relatively small number of foreigners can revitalize a neighborhood so broadly that cannot go unnoticed. And finally, the project wishes to bring up an ongoing, century-old debate on the role of Orientalism. Has the global power dynamic changed?
